### Glossary of Train Control Terminology v1.2

This glossary includes many of the terms that you will encounter in the Certificate (Module A) of the IRSE Examination. Its focus is on commonly used acronyms and on terms where, in different countries, there are alternative names in English for the same object, role, or function. It is not a comprehensive list of all train control terminology. It does not address telecommunications terminology because this tends to be more consistent between countries.

You are not expected to learn the descriptions in the  $ 3^{rd} $  column. Just look down the first column and check if there are any terms that you are not familiar with. The term in the first column is the one that is usually used in the examination.


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; width: max-content;'><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Term</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Alternative Terms &amp; Acronyms</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Describing</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Approach control (approach release)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Approach release</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The restriction of the aspect of a signal, to control the speed of a train (e.g. to ensure that the driver can comply with the turnout speed at a junction)</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Approach locking</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>Approach locking prevents the immediate release of a route where it is possible that an approaching train may be unable to stop.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Aspect</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Signal lamp Signal light</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Any valid visual indication of a signal as displayed to the driver.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Automatic Train Control</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ATC</td><td style='text-align: center;'>On-board automation that contributes to or replaces the driver&#x27;s judgement and actions in respect of controlling the train. It encompasses ATO and ATP.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Automatic Train Operation</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ATO</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A system that automatically operates the train&#x27;s driving controls</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Automatic Train Protection</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ATP</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A safety system that enforces either compliance with or observation of speed restrictions and/or signal aspects by trains.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Automatic Train Supervision</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ATS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A non-safety system (common on metros) which regulates a train service, typically to maintain intended traffic patterns and to minimise the effects of train delays on the operating schedule.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Automatic Route Setting</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ARS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A system for setting routes without the action of the signaller (signal operator).</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Automatic signal</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A signal controlled by the passage of trains. It does not require any action by the signaller (signal operator) or ARS.</td></tr></table>

---

<table border=1 style='margin: auto; width: max-content;'><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Term</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Alternative Terms &amp; Acronyms</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Describing</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Axle counter</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A method of detecting the absence of a train. Track mounted wheel sensors detect the passing train wheels (axles) and the axle counter evaluator counts the number of axles entering and leaving a train detection section at each extremity.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Balise (beacon)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Transponder Tag Beacon</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A track mounted unit that exchanges data messages with the train.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Cab Secure Radio</td><td style='text-align: center;'>CSR</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A secure radio communication system between driver and signaller (signal operator).</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Colour light signal</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A signal that conveys its information by coloured lights.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Computer Based Interlocking</td><td style='text-align: center;'>CBI PBI</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A safety interlocking system based on computers or processors.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Communications Based Train Control</td><td style='text-align: center;'>CBTC</td><td style='text-align: center;'>An Automatic Train Control system, mostly used on metro railways, with train location sensing not requiring track circuits. The train controlling functions are enabled by continuous data communications between train and wayside sub-systems.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Concentrator</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A facility to connect several telephone circuits to one handset.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Control centre. (see also Signal box)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Signalling centre Operations control centre Dispatch office Train control centre Network control centre</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A location where train operators monitor and control the operation of the railway over a large area. It usually incorporates operational functions beyond simply controlling the signals.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Control table</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A part of the signalling system specification that defines the detail of the signalling interlocking controls for each signalling function, such as signals, points and routes.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Equipment case</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Apparatus case Apparatus cupboard Location case Cubicle Signalling Apparatus Box(SAB)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A housing containing apparatus which is intended for unprotected outdoor use.</td></tr></table>

---

<table border=1 style='margin: auto; width: max-content;'><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Term</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Alternative Terms &amp; Acronyms</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Describing</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>European Rail Traffic Management System</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ERTMS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A system for managing rail traffic, enabling it to operate on compatible signalling systems across European borders.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>European Train Control System</td><td style='text-align: center;'>ETCS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The train control part of ERTMS.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Facing Points</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Facing point switch</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A track switch at a diverging junction in the direction of travel</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Fail Safe</td><td style='text-align: center;'>FS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A characteristic of a system which ensures that known, or expected malfunctions will maintain or place the equipment in a safe state.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Flank protection</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>Protection from overrunning movements approaching on converging tracks.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Fouling point</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>The position at the convergence or divergence of two tracks where the structure gauge on each line would come into contact.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Grade of Automation</td><td style='text-align: center;'>GoA</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The extent to which the functions of the driver are controlled by a technical system.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Global System for Mobile Communications</td><td style='text-align: center;'>GSM</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The standard which describes the protocols for digital networks used by mobile communications devices.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Global System for Mobile Communications - Railway</td><td style='text-align: center;'>GSM-R</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The system, based on GSM, which delivers digital secure communications between railway users (e.g. drivers and signallers).</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Headway</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>The shortest time (or distance) interval between two trains, so that the second train can run at its full permitted speed without being restricted by the signal aspects.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Impedance bond</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A device which presents a low impedance to traction current and a higher impedance to track circuit current.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Insulated Rail Joint</td><td style='text-align: center;'>IRJ Insulated Block Joint (IBJ)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A joint of two sections of rail with insulation between them to maintain electrical isolation, usually for track circuit purposes.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Interlocking</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A general term applied to the system, which sets, secures and releases train routes for the safe movement of trains and transmits safe movement authorities to the train driver.</td></tr></table>

---

<table border=1 style='margin: auto; width: max-content;'><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Term</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Alternative Terms &amp; Acronyms</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Describing</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Level crossing.</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Grade crossing</td><td style='text-align: center;'>An intersection at the same elevation of a road and one or more rail tracks</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Limit of Shunt</td><td style='text-align: center;'>LOS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>An indicator or sign to instruct the driver to terminate a shunting movement, particularly along a line in the wrong direction.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Line capacity</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>For a given section of line, the practical maximum number of trains per hour permitted by the signalling system and operational constraints.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Maintainer</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Signal electrician Signal technician Technician</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A person who keeps the signalling or communications systems in safe and reliable working order.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Maintenance manager</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A person responsible for the safe and reliable working of the signalling or communications systems and/or for supervising the maintenance activities.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Operator</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>A person who operates the signalling or communications systems and is responsible for the safe operation of trains.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Overlap</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>The distance beyond a signal that must be clear before a train is permitted to approach it.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Permissible speed</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Line speed</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The maximum allowable safe speed over a section of line.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Point machine</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Point operating mechanism</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The equipment for the powered operation of a set of points</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Points</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Switches</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The means by which a train is transferred from one track to another.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Possession (of a line)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Occupation</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The complete stoppage of all normal train movements on a running line or siding, usually for engineering purposes.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Right side failure</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Negligible risk failure</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A failure which does not result in the protection provided by the signalling system being reduced.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Route locking</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Maintained locking Route holding</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Maintains the locking associated with a route in use until after the train has passed clear of the equipment being locked (for example, points or opposing signal).</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Running line</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Mainline</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A railway line that is not in a siding or depot.</td></tr></table>

---

<table border=1 style='margin: auto; width: max-content;'><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Term</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Alternative Terms &amp; Acronyms</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Describing</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Semaphore signal</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Mechanical signal</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A signal which informs a driver by means of the position of a mechanical arm during daylight and coloured lights during darkness</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Signal box</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Signal cabin (see also Control centre)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The building in which the signaller(s) is/are situated together with the control and indication system for the signalling.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Signaller (signal operator) (see also train controller)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Dispatcher Signalman Train control operator</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A person responsible for the operation of the signalling system, to safely control the passage and regulation of trains.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Signalling Equipment Room</td><td style='text-align: center;'>SER Bungalow REB (Relocatable Equipment Building)</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A &quot;walk-in&quot; room or independent building for housing signalling equipment</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Signalling panel</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Signalling workstation Train control workstation Control panel Switch panel</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The equipment that displays train information to the signalling (signal operator) and which enables control of the signalling by buttons, keyboards or touchscreens.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Toe of point</td><td style='text-align: center;'></td><td style='text-align: center;'>The end of a switch rail furthest from the crossing of the rails.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Track Circuit</td><td style='text-align: center;'>TC</td><td style='text-align: center;'>An electrical device using the rails in an electric circuit, which detects the absence of trains on a defined section of line.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Trailing points</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Trailing point switch</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A track switch at a converging junction in the direction of travel</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Train controller</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Network controller</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A person responsible for safely managing a section of railway including prioritising train movements, authorising track possessions and manging incidents. The person may also operate the signalling system as shown for a &#x27;Signaller&#x27; above</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Train Control System</td><td style='text-align: center;'>TCS</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The system used in the control centre to convert operator inputs into commands to the signalling system and for sending indications from the signalling system and train descriptions to the signalling panel.</td></tr></table>

---

<table border=1 style='margin: auto; width: max-content;'><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Term</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Alternative Terms &amp; Acronyms</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Describing</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Train driver</td><td style='text-align: center;'>Train operatorLocomotive operatorEngine driverMotorman</td><td style='text-align: center;'>The person in the cab of a train operating or supervising the braking and acceleration of the train under instructions from the signalling system, a dispatcher or lineside signs.</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center;'>Wrong Side Failure</td><td style='text-align: center;'>WSF</td><td style='text-align: center;'>A failure that results in the protection provided by the signalling system being reduced or removed.</td></tr></table>

The far more comprehensive ‘Glossary of Signalling Terms’ published by the UK Rail Safety and Standards Board is acknowledged in the preparation of this appendix.